Good afternoon, my name is Juan Ospina. My question is: How do technology and circular economy collaborate with color theory to make it sustainable?
Oh, Katrin, wow. Thank you. That is also a question I really like.
I am a big consumer of circular clothing. In fact, yesterday I was walking down the street, went into a second-hand store, and got this from a Colombian designer.
I got very excited because I said, "Ah, Colombian design." And yes, I think it is very important to consider that what we call "yesterday's colors" are actually the colors of the future.
Now that we have fast fashion and industries that produce and spend liters and liters of water for chemical colors that fade in a minute, the same thing happens as with painting.
There are paintings from the 12th century that remain intact because the pigments were very resistant, and there are paintings from the 20th century that have lost all color because they were flashier but didn't work as well chemically.
The same thing happens with clothes. Sometimes we have garments that are very flashy but look dead in a year. So, this rescue is super important.
And the issue of technology is complex. We are not going backward; we are going forward. I tell my students: ask AI for five links to books to read, etc.
The point is how to use this tool that is already here to our advantage. I believe circular fashion is the future because it teaches us that the answer has always been there—the design and color of the past, that is true sustainability.
Besides, it is often confused. Circular economy is not the same as used clothing. It's not circular economy if it's still part of a terrible system. I don't know if I answered that well.